Blog post regarding kafka reassignment partition tool (#279)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2022-01-10-reassign-partitions.md

---
layout: post

> title:  "Reassign partitions in Kafka Cluster"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title:  "Reassign partitions to different brokers in a Kafka Cluster"
```

date: 2021-09-23
author: shubham_rawat
---

> Scaling down Kafka Brokers and increasing the number of topics and partitions are all pretty common tasks for Kafka users. Let's take a case, for eg. There are certain brokers in a cluster and now we want to remove a broker from the cluster. We need to make sure that the broker which is going to be removed should not have any assigned partitions. Now we require a tool which can assign the partitions from the broker to be scaled down, to the brokers which will be responsible for handling these partitions. The most convenient tool for this job is the reassignment partition tool: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh`.

Reviewer: We say a little bit on using CC and the script in this section: https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/in-development/using.html#partition_rebalancing_for_availability

> Scaling down Kafka Brokers and increasing the number of topics and partitions are all pretty common tasks for Kafka users. Let's take a case, for eg. There are certain brokers in a cluster and now we want to remove a broker from the cluster. We need to make sure that the broker which is going to be removed should not have any assigned partitions. Now we require a tool which can assign the partitions from the broker to be scaled down, to the brokers which will be responsible for handling these partitions. The most convenient tool for this job is the reassignment partition tool: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scaling Kafka brokers is a pretty common task for Kafka users. Let's take the case, for example, that there are a certain number of brokers in a cluster, and we want to remove one. We need to make sure that the broker which is going to be removed should not have any assigned partitions. This requires a tool that can assign the partitions from the broker to be removed to the remaining brokers. The most convenient tool for this job is the reassignment partition tool: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh`.
```

<!--more-->

> ## Partition Reassignment tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Partition reassignment tool
```

Reviewer: I'll leave the rest. We don't capitalise _Reassignment_ in the guide, but I guess it's fine to leave it like this in this post. Up to you.

Within a broker pod, the `bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` tool allows you to reassign partitions to different brokers.

It has three different modes:

| Mode | Description |
| :-----------: | ------------- |

> | `generate`  | Takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file which will result in the partitions of those topics being assigned to those brokers. Because this operates on whole topics, it cannot be used when you only want to reassign some partitions for some topics.|

Reviewer 2: The "reassignment JSON file" concept might be worth introducing explicitly, explaining what it is before talking about how the same one is passed between the executions of the tool.

| `execute` | Takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. The `reassignment.json` file can be either the one proposed by the `--generate` command or written by the user itself. |
| `verify`  | Using the same reassignment JSON file as the `--execute` step, `--verify` checks whether all the partitions in the file have been moved to their intended brokers. If the reassignment is complete, `--verify` also removes any traffic throttles (`--throttle`) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished. |

While using the tool, you have to provide it with two essential JSON files: `topics.json` and `reassignment.json`.
Wondering what these two JSON files really do? Let's talk a bit about them:

> - The `topic.json` basically consists of the topics that we want to reassign or move. Based on this JSON file, our tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` which we can further change as per our requirements or use directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `topic.json` basically consists of the topics that we want to reassign or move. Based on this JSON file, our tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` that we can use directly or modify further. 
```

> - The `reassignment.json` file is a configuration file which is used during the partition reassignment process. The reassignment partition tool will give us a proposal `reassignment.json` file when we feed it with the `topics.json` file. We can change the `reassignment.json` file as per our requirement and use it.

Reviewer 2: Right, so this bit should come before explaining the executions of the tool.

> - The `reassignment.json` file is a configuration file which is used during the partition reassignment process. The reassignment partition tool will give us a proposal `reassignment.json` file when we feed it with the `topics.json` file. We can change the `reassignment.json` file as per our requirement and use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `reassignment.json` file is a configuration file that is used during the partition reassignment process. The reassignment partition tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` file based on a `topics.json` file. 
```

> ## Why use the Partition Reassignment tool?

Reviewer 2: This is the section I'd like to see at the start of the post, since it motivates the reader into why they might want to learn about this tool at all.

> The Partition Reassignment tool can help you address a variety of use cases.
> 
> Some of these are listed here :-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Partition Reassignment tool can address a number of use cases, such as the following:
```

1. It can be used at times when you want to scale down your cluster.

>    You can assign partitions from the broker to be scaled down to other brokers which will handle these partitions now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can assign partitions from brokers being removed to the remaining brokers that will handle the partitions.
```

> 2. We all know that the best way to increase throughput for the topic is to increase the no. of partitions for that topic. You can use this tool to increase the no. of partitions/replicas. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You can increase the number of partitions and replicas. 
```

   
## Example time

> Let's have a look at an example which will show us how we can use the partition reassignment tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's have a look at an example that will show us how we can use the partition reassignment tool.
```

Reviewer: You're lower case with the name of the tool here.

In this example we will be taking a look at how the three modes of the partition reassignment tool(`--generate`, `--execute` and `--verify`) are used.

> We will generate the JSON data which will be used in the `reassignment.json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will generate the JSON data that will be used in the `reassignment.json` file.
```

> Later on, we will see that how we scale down the cluster using the generated `reassignment.json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will then scale down a Kafka cluster using the generated `reassignment.json` file.
```

spec:
  authentication:
    type: tls
  authorization:
    type: simple
    acls:
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Write
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Read
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"        
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"
  # ...
```

### Procedure

Once you have a running cluster with topics and the brokers, now you are ready to create the proposal json data.
The fist step would be to extract the certificates and key for the cluster and the user in order to authenticate using Tls client authentication.

Let us proceed toward extracting the cluster CA certificate and password.
We can extract both of them easily from the `<CLUSTER-NAME>-cluster-ca-cert` Secret (where `<CLUSTER-NAME>` denotes the name of the cluster) using the following commands:

```sh

> kubectl get secret CLUSTER-NAME-cluster-ca-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.p12}' | base64 -d > ca.p12

Reviewer 3: I think the comment from Paul still applies.

```

```sh

> kubectl get secret CLUSTER-NAME-cluster-ca-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.password}' | base64 -d > ca.password

Reviewer 3: I think the comment from Paul still applies.

```

Copy the User CA certificates to the interactive pod container.

```sh
kubectl cp user.p12 <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp
```

The interactive pod now has both user and cluster CA certificates. 

Next, we will configure the Kafka clients to connect to our Kafka cluster and authenticate.
The truststore and the keystore location are mapped to their respective location (which is the folder inside the interactive pod container, since all of our commands will be executed inside the shell process of the interactive pod).
And the configuration provider will use these values.
We will also configure the `bootstrap.servers` option to make it easier to change address to connect to the Kafka cluster.

```properties
bootstrap.servers=my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9093
security.protocol=SSL
ssl.truststore.location=/tmp/ca.p12
ssl.truststore.password=<truststore_password_present_in_ca_password_file>
ssl.keystore.location=/tmp/user.p12
ssl.keystore.password=<keystore_password_present_in_user_password_file>
```

Now we will copy the `config.properties` file to the interactive pod container:

```sh
kubectl cp config.properties <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp/config.properties
```

> Lets create a `topics.json` file now. As we discussed above this file will have the topics that we need to reassign:

Reviewer 3: How do you know which topics should be included for the scaledown?

```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "topics": [
    { "topic": "my-topic-1"},
    { "topic": "my-topic-2"}
  ]
}
```

After the creation of this file, copy it to the interactive pod container since we will be running all of our commands from there:

```sh
kubectl cp topics.json <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp/topics.json
```

We can now start a shell process in our interactive pod container and run the command inside it to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data.
Let us start the shell process:

```sh
kubectl exec -ti <interactive_pod_name> /bin/bash
```

Now it's time for generating the `reassignment.json` file. 
We will use the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` command to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data:

```sh
bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9093 \
--command-config /tmp/config.properties \
--topics-to-move-json-file /tmp/topics.json \

> --broker-list 0,1,2 \

Reviewer 3: You should probably explain more about what these options mean.

--generate
```

> Once you run this command, you will be able to see the JSON data which is generated by the partition reassignment tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you run this command, you will be able to see the JSON data that is generated by the partition reassignment tool.
```

> Now you can copy and save this data to use in the `reassignment.json` file. You can also create/alter the `reassignment.json` file

Reviewer 3: Wouldn't it be best here to do something like `... > reassingment.json`? Or does that not work? Readers might not know how to get the JSON into the file.

> Now you can copy and save this data to use in the `reassignment.json` file. You can also create/alter the `reassignment.json` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can copy and save the data to use in the `reassignment.json` file. You can also modify the `reassignment.json` file
```

### Scaling down the cluster

> Coming to the last step of this example, Here we will see how we use the generated `reassignment.json` to get the reassignment done by the reassignment partition tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Coming to the last step of this example, Here we will see how we use the generated `reassignment.json` scale down a cluster using the reassignment partition tool
```

> Since we have generated the `reassignment.json` file in the previous step, now we can use it for our next step.

Reviewer 3: Wasn't it generated inside the pod?

> Lets copy the `reassignment.json` file to the interactive pod container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's copy the `reassignment.json` file to the interactive pod container.
```

```sh
kubectl cp reassignment.json <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp/reassignment.json
```

> Now we will start a shell process inside the interactive pod container in which we will run our kafka bin script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we'll start a shell process inside the interactive pod container run run our Kafka bin script.
```

```sh
kubectl exec -ti <interactive_pod_name> /bin/bash
```

> So lets run the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` script now to start the partition reassignment 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So let's run the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` script now to start the partition reassignment 
```

> So lets run the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` script now to start the partition reassignment 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So let's run the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` script now to start the partition reassignment:
```

```sh
bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server
 <cluster_name>-kafka-bootstrap:9093 \
 --command-config /tmp/config.properties \
 --reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \ 
 --execute
```

> Now you can use the `--verify` mode to check if the partition reassignment is done or if it is still running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `--verify` mode to check if the partition reassignment is done or if it is still running.
```

```sh
bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server
  <cluster_name>-kafka-bootstrap:9093 \
  --command-config /tmp/config.properties \
  --reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \
  --verify
```

> The `--verify` mode reports if the assignment is done or not.

Reviewer 3: Maybe sharing an example output of _still moving_ and _done_ would be useful.

> Once the partition reassignment is complete the broker which were required to be scaled down will have no assigned partition and can be removed safely.

Reviewer 3: In Strimzi, you can always scale down the last broker only. I think this should be reflected through the blog post and you should describe it more like a real scenario ... _I have 5 brokers and wanna scale to 3 because they are not too busy. How do I do it?_

> Once the partition reassignment is complete the broker which were required to be scaled down will have no assigned partition and can be removed safely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the partition reassignment is complete, the scaled down brokers will have no assigned partitions and can be removed safely.
```

> # Conclusion and What lies beyond the example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What lies beyond this example
```

Reviewer: Not sure I understand this title. It sounds like you're going to give advice about what to do next. Maybe something like _Getting the essentials right_?

> This example  gave you a briefing on how to use all the 3 mode of the tool which are `--generate`, `--execute` and `--verify` which are the most essential things we should know before doing any reassignment of partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example provides a brief introduction to the `--generate`, `--execute`, and `--verify` modes of the partition reassignment tool. These are the crucial points you should know before attempting a reassignment of partitions in your Kafka cluster.
```

> You can also take a look at our documentation on the use of partition reassignment file for [Scaling up the Kafka cluster](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/in-development/using.html#proc-scaling-up-a-kafka-cluster-str) and [Scaling down the Kafka cluster](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/in-development/using.html#proc-scaling-down-a-kafka-cluster-str).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also take a look at our documentation on using the partition reassignment file for [Scaling up a Kafka cluster](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/in-development/using.html#proc-scaling-up-a-kafka-cluster-str) and [Scaling down a Kafka cluster](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/in-development/using.html#proc-scaling-down-a-kafka-cluster-str).
```

These use cases are covered extensively in [the documentation](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/configuring.html#cruise-control-concepts-str).
So if this is the kind of rebalancing you need you can stop reading the rest of this post.

The Strimzi community is also planning further integration with Cruise Control:

* Simplifying the existing rebalancing functionality using [auto-approval](https://github.com/strimzi/proposals/blob/main/038-optimization-proposal-autoapproval.md).
* Better supporting [changing the replication factor](https://github.com/strimzi/proposals/pull/50) of individual topics using the Topic Operator.

Until those improvements are implemented it's possible to use the reassignment tool for these cases.

There are a couple of other common use cases where the tool can be used:

* Changing the preferred leader of one or more partitions.
  Followed by forcing the election of the preferred leader, this can be used to change the leadership of a given partition.
* Moving data from one volume to another on the same broker.
  This is necessary prior to removing a volume from JBOD storage.

>   (To utilise a newly added JBOD volume it's more convenient to perform a global rebalance using `KafkaRebalance` once the volume has been added).

Reviewer 2: @ShubhamRwt ah, this was the reason I originally went with the removal example.

```suggestion
  (To utilise a newly added JBOD volume it's probably more convenient to perform a global rebalance using `KafkaRebalance` once the volume has been added).
```

> In the rest of this post we'll dive into how the tool works, and then go through some examples base on these use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the rest of this post we'll dive into how the tool works, and then go through some examples based on these use cases.
```

## Tool modes

The `bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` tool allows you to reassign partitions to different brokers or disks.

The tool has two fundamental modes of operation:

- `--execute`: This initiates a ressignment that you describe using a JSON file. We'll refer to this file throughout as reassignment.json, though you can name it how you like. Note that when the execution of an --execute command completes the reassignment has only been started.
- `--verify`: This checks whether reassignment that you previously started (using --execute) has actually completed.

> Constructing a reassignment.json can anything from a bit tedious to a piece of work in its own right. To help with this the tool provides an optional third mode, `--generate`, to generate one from a list of topics you provide in a different JSON file, which we'll be calling topics.json. You can use the reassignment.json that is produced by a --generate invocation directly, or modify it further prior to actually making changes using --execute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Constructing a reassignment.json can be anything from a bit tedious to a piece of work in its own right. To help with this the tool provides an optional third mode, `--generate`, to generate one from a list of topics you provide in a different JSON file, which we'll be calling topics.json. You can use the reassignment.json that is produced by a --generate invocation directly, or modify it further prior to actually making changes using --execute.
```

## Partition Reassignment in detail

> When you make changes to a partition there are three possible cases:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you make changes to a partition's assignment to brokers there are three possible cases:
```

1. Changes which require moving data between brokers.

> 2. Changes which require moving data between volumes on the same broker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Changes which require moving data between volumes on _the same_ broker.
```

3. Change which require no data movement at all.

The first case leads to additional inter-broker network traffic, in addition to the normal traffic required for replication.
To avoid overloading the cluster, it is recommended to always set a throttle rate to limit the bandwidth used by the reassignment.

> This can be done using the `--throttle` option in the `--execute` model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be done using the `--throttle` option in the `--execute` mode.
```

This sets the maximum allowed bandwidth in bytes per second, for example `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --execute --throttle 5000000 ...` would set the limit to 5 MB/s.

Throttling might cause the reassignment to take longer to complete.

* If the throttle is too low, the newly assigned brokers will not be able to keep up with records being published and the reassignment will never complete.

* If the throttle is too high, the overall health of the cluster may be impacted.

> You can use the `kafka.server:type=FetcherLagMetrics,name=ConsumerLag,clientId=([-.\w]+),topic=([-.\w]+),partition=([0-9]+)` metric (which with the default `spec.kafka.metrics` settings in your Kafka CR would be named in Prometheus as `kafka_server-fetcherlagmetrics_consumerlag`) to observe how far the followers are lagging behind the leader. You can also refer to this [example](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/packaging/examples/metrics/kafka-metrics.yaml) for configuring metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the `kafka.server:type=FetcherLagMetrics,name=ConsumerLag,clientId=([-.\w]+),topic=([-.\w]+),partition=([0-9]+)` metric (which with the default `spec.kafka.metrics` settings in your Kafka CR would be named in Prometheus as `kafka_server-fetcherlagmetrics_consumerlag`) to observe how far the followers are lagging behind the leader. You can refer to this [example](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/packaging/examples/metrics/kafka-metrics.yaml) for configuring metrics
```

> The best way to set the value for throttle is to start with a safe value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The best way to set the value for `--throttle` is to start with a safe value.
```

```

Finally, let us create a separate interactive pod for running the commands in.

> You may ask why we are using a separate pod to run the commands? Can't we just use one of the broker pods?
> The issue is that running commands from within a broker is not good practice.
> Running any of the Kafka `/bin` scripts from within the broker container will start another JVM (with all the same settings as the Kafka broker).
> This can cause disruption, including causing the container to run out of memory.
> So it is always better to avoid running the commands from a broker pod.

You can use the following command to create a pod called `my-pod`:

```sh
kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:0.29.0-kafka-3.2.0 my-pod -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"
```

Wait till the pod gets into the `Ready` state.
Once it is ready, we're all set to work through the examples.

## Example 1: Decreasing replication factor

When we just created the `my-topic-two` topic we specified `spec.replicas` as 4.
In hindsight that's actually more replicas than we need, so let's reduce it to 3.
To do this we can simply remove the last replica from the list of replicas of each partition of that topic.

> Since we're operating on a single topic it's going to be easiest to use the `--generate` mode of `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` and then edit that (either by hand or using a tool like `jq`).

Reviewer 2: Turn jq into a link

```
Here `topics-to-move-json-file` points towards the `topics.json file` and `--broker-list` is the list of brokers we want to move our partitions onto.

Once you run this command, you will be able to see the JSON data which is generated by the Kafka reassignment partition tool. You get the current replica assignment and the proposed `reassignment.json` data.

```sh
Current partition replica assignment
{"version":1,"partitions":[{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":0,"replicas":[3,4,2,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":1,"replicas":[0,2,3,1],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":2,"replicas":[1,3,0,4],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]}]}

Proposed partition reassignment configuration
{"version":1,"partitions":[{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":0,"replicas":[0,1,2,3],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":1,"replicas":[1,2,3,4],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":2,"replicas":[2,3,4,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]}]}

```

You can copy this proposed partition reassignment and paste it in a local `reassignment.json` file

> Edit the `reassignment.json` to remove a replica from each partition

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Edit the `reassignment.json` to remove a replica from each partition, for example using `jq` to simply remove the last replica in the list for each partition of the topic:
```

```sh
echo "$( jq 'del(.partitions[].replicas[3])' reassignment.json)" > reassignment.json
```

> We then copy the `reassignment.json` file to the interactive pod container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We then copy the modified `reassignment.json` file to the interactive pod container.
```

```sh
kubectl cp reassignment.json my-pod:/tmp/reassignment.json
```
Now we'll start a shell process inside the interactive pod container to run our Kafka bin script.

```sh
kubectl exec -ti my-pod /bin/bash -- bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \
--reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \
--execute
```

> Because removing replicas from a broker doesn't require any interbroker data movement there is no need to supply a `--throttle` in this case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because removing replicas from a broker doesn't require any interbroker data movement there is no need to supply a `--throttle` in this case.
(Interbroker data movement would be needed if you were increasing the replication factor, so in that case a `--throttle` would be recommended).
```

> And since deleting data is very quick the reassignment will probably be complete almost immediately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since deleting data is very quick the reassignment will probably be complete almost immediately.
```

--reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \
--verify
```

The `--verify` action reports if the assignment is done or not.

```sh
Status of partition reassignment:
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-0 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-1 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-2 is complete.

Clearing broker-level throttles on brokers 0,1,2,3,4
Clearing topic-level throttles on topic my-topic-two
```

We can validate that each of the partitions now has three replicas:

Topic: my-topic-two     TopicId: Hj9OZs77T3CYiHmGpTz3QA PartitionCount: 3       ReplicationFactor: 3    Configs: min.insync.replicas=2,segment.bytes=1073741824,retention.ms=7200000,message.format.version=3.0-IV1
Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 0    Leader: 2       Replicas: 0,1,2 Isr: 2,0,1
Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 1    Leader: 3       Replicas: 1,2,3 Isr: 1,2,3
Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 2    Leader: 0       Replicas: 2,3,0 Isr: 0,2,3

## Example 2: Changing the preferred leader

Let's now change the preferred leader of `my-topic-two` partition 0.

> Changing the order of the replicas will change the preferred leader. We can edit our previous `reassignment.json` file to edit the order of the replicas for partition 0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The preferred replica is the first one in the list of `Replicas` in the output above, so changing the order of the replicas will change the preferred leader. 
However doing that won't, on it's own, force the current leadership to be changed to match the new preferred leader.

Let's start by editing our previous `reassignment.json` file to edit the order of the replicas for partition 0
```

```shell
{"version":1,"partitions":[{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":0,"replicas":[1,0,2]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":1,"replicas":[1,2,3]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":2,"replicas":[2,3,4]}]}
```
Now we can use the `--execute` mode to apply our new `reassignment.json` file

```sh
kubectl exec -ti my-pod /bin/bash -- bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \
--reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \
--execute
```
Now we can use the `--verify` mode to see if the assignment is done or not as we did in the previous example

Now we can see if the preferred leader is now changed or not

```shell
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 0    Leader: 0       Replicas: 1,0,2 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 1    Leader: 2       Replicas: 1,2,3 Isr: 2,3,1
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 2    Leader: 3       Replicas: 2,3,4 Isr: 2,3,4

```

> 

Reviewer 2: Were you going to add an example for the chaning of log dirs too?

### Preparing to scale down the number of Kafka Brokers

This example will use a Kafka cluster deployed with the Strimzi Cluster Operator.
Before we start with anything, we have to install the Strimzi Cluster Operator and deploy the Kafka cluster.
You can install the Cluster Operator with any installation method you prefer.
The Kafka cluster is then deployed with the PLAIN listener enabled on port 9092.

Example Kafka configuration with PLAIN authentication.
```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: <CLUSTER-NAME>
spec:
  kafka:
    replicas: 5
    listeners:
      - name: plain
        port: 9092
        type: internal
        tls: false
    config:
      offsets.topic.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.min.isr: 2
    storage:
      type: jbod
      volumes:
      - id: 0
        type: persistent-claim
        size: 100Gi
  zookeeper:
    replicas: 3
    storage:
      type: persistent-claim
      size: 100Gi
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
    userOperator: {}
```

> Once the cluster is running, lets deploy some topics where we will send and receive the messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the cluster is running, let's deploy some topics where we will send and receive the messages.
```

Here is an example topic configuration. You can change it to suit your requirements.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaTopic
metadata:

>   name: my-topic-1

Reviewer 2: This is a subtle point and I'm not asking you to change it... topics with names like `{name}-{number}` can result in confusing broker logs. The broker logs _partitions_ using this same pattern, `{topicname}-{number}`. i.e. the second partition of this topic would be logged as `my-topic-1-1`. It creates an ambiguity between topic names and partitions. For this reason I personally would avoid naming a topic to end with a number, so that I could more easily `grep` the broker logs for `my-topic-1` and know I was getting hits about a partition, not a topic.

        operation: DescribeConfigs
        host: "*"
      - resource:
           type: topic
           name: my-topic-1
           patternType: literal
        operation: AlterConfigs
        host: "*"        
      - resource:
           type: cluster
           name: <CLUSTER-NAME>
           patternType: literal
        operation: Alter
        host: "*"
      - resource:
           type: cluster
           name: <CLUSTER-NAME>
           patternType: literal
        operation: AlterConfigs
        host: "*"        
  # ...
```

### Creating a proposal `reassignment.json` file

When you have a Kafka cluster running with brokers and topics, you are ready to create the proposal JSON file.

Let us create a separate interactive pod.
This interactive pod is used to run all the reassignment commands. 
One question might bug you. What is the need of a separate pod? Can't we just use one of the broker pods?
In answer to this question, running commands from within a broker is not good practice as it's insecure
It will start another JVM inside the container designated for the broker and can cause disruption, cause the container to run out of memory and so on.

> So it is always better to avoid running the command from a broker pod.

Reviewer 4: @ShubhamRwt not addressed this?

> So now it's time to get our interactive pod up and running. You can use the following command:

Reviewer 4: I agree. The logical flow would be starting the pod right before it's needed. @ShubhamRwt this is not addressed yet?

> So now it's time to get our interactive pod up and running. You can use the following command:

Author: The pod is also used to check the partition details of the topic. There fore I have not changed the steps

```sh

> kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:0.27.0-kafka-3.0.0 <INTERACTIVE-POD-NAME> -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention that the `sleep` means we have 1 hour to use this pod? That way someone following along won't be surprised if their pod stops working.

```

Wait till the pod gets into the `Ready` state. Once the pod gets into `Ready` state, now our next step will be to generate our `topics.json` file. 

Now arises a good question. What topics require reassignment?
So the answer to this is the topics that have their partitions assigned to <CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4 and <CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-5 need to reassigned to 

Time to create a `topics.json` file now. As we discussed above, this file will have the topics that we need to reassign:

> Now arises a good question. What topics require reassignment?

Reviewer 2: `Now arises a good question. What topics require reassignment?` is duplicated

```
In the same way you can get the details for the other topic`my-topic` also.

```sh
Topic: my-topic TopicId: ERoAsjHHTIKFRPoo3h_ZZg PartitionCount: 10      ReplicationFactor: 3    Configs: min.insync.replicas=2,segment.bytes=1073741824,retention.ms=7200000,message.format.version=3.0-IV1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 0    Leader: 1       Replicas: 1,2,0 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 1    Leader: 2       Replicas: 2,0,1 Isr: 2,1,0
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 2    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,1,2 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 3    Leader: 0       Replicas: 1,0,2 Isr: 0,2,1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 4    Leader: 1       Replicas: 2,1,0 Isr: 1,0,2
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 5    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,2,1 Isr: 1,2,0
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 6    Leader: 2       Replicas: 1,2,0 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 7    Leader: 2       Replicas: 2,0,1 Isr: 2,0,1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 8    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,1,2 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 9    Leader: 1       Replicas: 1,0,2 Isr: 1,0,2
```

> From the above outputs, we got to know that `my-topic-1` needs reassignment, Now we can create the topics.json file easily.

Reviewer 2: fyi this is the point where I saw `my-topic-1` and wondered if it was a topic or a partition, prompting my previous comment.

```
Now you can create a `reassignment.json` file and copy this proposed `reassignment.json` data to use in the `reassignment.json` file. You can also create/alter the `reassignment.json` data in the file.

### Scaling down the cluster

Coming to the last step of this example, Here we will see how we use the generated `reassignment.json` to get the reassignment done by the reassignment partition tool.

Since we have copied the `reassignment.json` data into the `reassignment.json` file in the previous step, now we can use it for our next step.

> Let's copy the `reassignment.json` file to the interactive pod container.

Reviewer 5: Didn't we generate this file from inside the pod already?

```sh
kubectl cp reassignment.json <INTERACTIVE-POD-NAME>:/tmp/reassignment.json
```

Now we'll start a shell process inside the interactive pod container to run our Kafka bin script.
```sh
kubectl exec -ti <INTERACTIVE-POD-NAME> /bin/bash
```

So let's run the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` script now to start the partition reassignment 

```sh

> bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server <CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \

Reviewer 5: Should we show how to set quotas so we don't overwhelm the cluster?

Reviewer 2: We went to the trouble to mention quotas before, but actually setting them requires to provide some guidance on what numbers to use, which isn't exactly trivial.

Reviewer 5: At least have a placeholder so users actually are told how to use them, for example `--throttle <THROTTLE_BYTE_PER_SECOND>`.
I've commented above how to provide guidance on the actual value to use.

Reviewer 2: I think that's a good idea.

 --reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \ 
 --execute
```

You can use the `--verify` mode to check if the partition reassignment is done or if it is still running.

```sh

> bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server <CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \

Reviewer 5: It's worth mentioning users may need to run this command multiple times as a reassignment may take a while to complete.

  --reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \
  --verify
```
The `--verify` mode reports if the assignment is done or not.

```shell
Status of partition reassignment:
Reassignment of partition my-topic-1-0 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-1-1 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-1-2 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-1-3 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-1-4 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-1-5 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-1-6 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-1-7 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-1-8 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-1-9 is complete.

Clearing broker-level throttles on brokers 0,1,2,3,4
Clearing topic-level throttles on topic my-topic-1  
```

> When the partition reassignment is complete, the scaled down brokers will have no assigned partitions and can be removed safely. You can check it by looking at the partition details of the reassigned topic.

Reviewer 5: `the scaled down brokers` -> `the brokers we want to scale down`. At this point, these brokers are still there.

```shell
        Topic: my-topic-1       Partition: 0    Leader: 2       Replicas: 0,1,2 Isr: 2,0,1
        Topic: my-topic-1       Partition: 1    Leader: 1       Replicas: 1,2,0 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic-1       Partition: 2    Leader: 0       Replicas: 2,0,1 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic-1       Partition: 3    Leader: 1       Replicas: 0,2,1 Isr: 1,2,0
        Topic: my-topic-1       Partition: 4    Leader: 1       Replicas: 1,0,2 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic-1       Partition: 5    Leader: 2       Replicas: 2,1,0 Isr: 2,0,1
        Topic: my-topic-1       Partition: 6    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,1,2 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic-1       Partition: 7    Leader: 0       Replicas: 1,2,0 Isr: 0,2,1
        Topic: my-topic-1       Partition: 8    Leader: 1       Replicas: 2,0,1 Isr: 1,2,0
        Topic: my-topic-1       Partition: 9    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,2,1 Isr: 0,1,2   
```
As you can see the partition are now removed from the pod to be scaled down and now they can be removed without any problems. 

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe finish off with applying a CR with `kafka.spec.replicas: 3`?

# Conclusion

> This example provides a brief introduction to the `--generate`, `--execute`, and `--verify` modes of the Kafka reassignment partition tool. These are the crucial points you should know before attempting a reassignment of partitions in your Kafka cluster.

Reviewer 5: Earlier on we described them as `phases`, now we use `modes`.

---
layout: post
title:  "Reassigning partitions in Apache Kafka Cluster"
date: 2021-09-23
author: shubham_rawat
---

As Apache Kafka users, we sometimes want to scale up/down the number of Kafka brokers in our cluster in response to the load on the cluster.
The ability to add extra brokers can be an advantage to handle increased load, and we can use Cruise Control for general rebalancing in Strimzi since it allows us to automate the balancing of load across the cluster but what if we are scaling down the clusters?
Let us understand this with the help of an example, suppose there are certain number of brokers in a cluster and now we want to remove a broker from the cluster.
We need to make sure that the broker which is going to be removed does not have any assigned partitions. Strimzi's integration of Cruise Control currently doesn't support doing this for you, but we are working on it [strimzi/proposals#52](https://github.com/strimzi/proposals/pull/52).
You have to use some other tool to reassign the partitions from the broker to be removed, to the remaining brokers.

> The most convenient tool for this job is the Kafka partition reassignment tool.

Reviewer 3: I guess this is not valid anymore. The Cruise Control support improved since, so we need to re-write the introduction. I guess you could take the introduction more widely and say something very generic like _sometimes you might want to do things manually_?

But rewritting the scenario will be more complicated.

<!--more-->

##  Kafka reassignment partition tool

> The `bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` tool allows you to reassign partitions to different brokers.

Reviewer 3: ... or disks.

Reviewer 4: @ShubhamRwt this seems not addressed yet?

---
layout: post
title:  "Reassigning partitions in Apache Kafka Cluster"
date: 2021-09-23
author: shubham_rawat
---

> As Apache Kafka users, we commonly deal with brokers and the partitions. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
As Apache Kafka users, we commonly deal with brokers and the topic partitions they host. 
```

> Sometimes you might want to move the partitions from old brokers to the new brokers or maybe you want to change the ordering of the partition assignment list.

Reviewer 3: The old broker and new broker reference seems weird as Strimzi has no such concept currently. So I think it can be confusing. So maybe it can be _from one broker to another_?

> Sometimes you might want to move the partitions from old brokers to the new brokers or maybe you want to change the ordering of the partition assignment list.

Reviewer 6: You don't need the definite article ("the") before partitions in this case.

> Cruise Control can be used to tackle these issues easily but for any reason if you don't want to use Cruise Control and do the things manually then you can use the Kafka partition reassignment tool.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Cruise Control can be used to tackle these issues easily.
However, if you don't want to use Cruise Control and prefer to do the reassignment manually, then you can use the Kafka partition reassignment tool.
```

Here is a guide on how you can use it.

<!--more-->

##  Kafka reassignment partition tool

The `bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` tool allows you to reassign partitions to different brokers.

> While using the tool, you have to provide it with either of these two JSON files: `topics.json` and `reassignment.json`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
When using the tool you have to provide it with either of these two JSON files: `topics.json` or `reassignment.json`.
```

> Wondering what these two JSON files really do? Let's talk a bit about them:

Reviewer 6: I would delete this line. You have already introduced the 2 files.

> - The `topic.json` basically consists of the topics that we want to reassign or move. Based on this JSON file, our tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` that we can use directly or modify further.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- The `topic.json` basically consists of the topics that we want to reassign or move. Based on this JSON file, the reassignment script will generate a proposal (`reassignment.json`) that we can use directly or modify further.
```

> - The `reassignment.json` file is a configuration file that is used during the partition reassignment process. The reassignment partition tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` file based on a `topics.json` file. You can change the `reassignment.json` file as per your requirement and use it.

Reviewer 4: @ShubhamRwt I don't see this fixed.

> - The `reassignment.json` file is a configuration file that is used during the partition reassignment process. The reassignment partition tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` file based on a `topics.json` file. You can change the `reassignment.json` file as per your requirement and use it.

Author: Let me check again... I am sure I changed this.

## Why use the Kafka reassignment partition tool?

The Kafka reassignment partition tool can help you address a variety of use cases.

Some of these are listed here:

- You can reassign partitions between the brokers. For example, it can be used when you want to scale down the number of brokers in your cluster.
   You can assign partitions from the broker to be scaled down to other brokers which will handle these partitions now.

- You can increase the number of partitions / replicas which can help with increasing the throughput of topics.

## Partition Reassignment Throttle

> Reassigning partitions between brokers often leads to additional interbroker network traffic, in addition to the normal traffic required for replication. To avoid overloading the cluster, it is recommended to always set a throttle rate to limit the bandwidth used by the reassignment. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Reassigning partitions between brokers often leads to additional inter-broker network traffic, in addition to the normal traffic required for replication. 
To avoid overloading the cluster, it is recommended to always set a throttle rate to limit the bandwidth used by the reassignment. 
```

1. If the throttle is too low, the newly assigned brokers will not be able to keep up with records being published and the reassignment will never complete.

2. If the throttle is too high, the overall health of the cluster may be impacted.

You can use the `kafka.server:type=FetcherLagMetrics,name=ConsumerLag,clientId=([-.\w]+),topic=([-.\w]+),partition=([0-9]+)` metric (which with the spec.kafka.metrics settings in your Kafka CR would appear be scraped by Prometheus as `kafka_server-fetcherlagmetrics_consumerlag`) to observe how far the followers are lagging behind the leader. You can also refer to this [example](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/packaging/examples/metrics/kafka-metrics.yaml) for configuring metrics 

The best way to set the value for throttle is to start with a safe value.
If the lag is growing, or decreasing too slowly to catch up within a reasonable time, then the throttle should be increased.
To do this, run the command again to increase the throttle, iterating until it looks like the broker will join the ISR within a reasonable time.

## Actions that can be executed while using the tool

> It has three different actions:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The partition reassignment tool has three different actions:
```

| Action | Description |
| :-----------: | ------------- |
| `generate`  | Takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file. This action is optional if we already have `reassignment.json` file with us. You can use this action using `--generate`|

> | `execute` | Takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. The `reassignment.json` file can be either the one proposed by the `generate` action or written by the user. `--execute`  is used to carry out this action |

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
| `execute` | Takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. The `reassignment.json` file can be either the one proposed by the `generate` action or written by the user. The `--execute` flag is used to carry out this action. |
```

> | `verify`  | Using the same reassignment JSON file as the `--execute` step, `--verify` checks whether all the partitions in the file have been moved to their intended brokers. If the reassignment is complete, `--verify` also removes any replication quotas (`--throttle`) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished. This action can be executed using `--verify` |

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
| `verify`  | Using the same reassignment JSON file as the `--execute` step, `--verify` checks whether all the partitions in the file have been moved to their intended brokers. If the reassignment is complete, `--verify` also removes any replication quotas (`--throttle`) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished. This action can be executed using the `--verify` flag. |
```

> ## Example time

Reviewer 3: Maybe I would just call it _Example_?

Reviewer 6: Definitely just call this `Example`

> Let us understand the working of this tool with a concrete example.

Reviewer 3: Why is this example easier than using Cruise Control and `remove-brokers` rebalance? If you want to use this as an example, you probably need to set it into a more context, link to the way to do it with Cruise Control etc.

Suppose we have 5 Kafka Brokers and after looking at the partition details we realize that the brokers are not too busy, so we can scale them down to 3.
Through this example we will take a look at how the three actions of the Kafka reassignment partition tool(`--generate`, `--execute` and `--verify`) work.
We will generate the JSON data that will be used in the `reassignment.json` file.
We will then assign the partitions to the remaining broker using the `reassignment.json` file.

> Before proceeding with the steps. let's discuss one more curious question. Can you scale down any pod you want through this process?

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Before proceeding with the steps above, let's address an important issue. Can you scale down any pod you want through this process?
```

           tls: true
      config:
         offsets.topic.replication.factor: 3
         transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 3
         transaction.state.log.min.isr: 2
         default.replication.factor: 3
         min.insync.replicas: 2
         inter.broker.protocol.version: "3.2"
      storage:
         type: ephemeral
   zookeeper:
      replicas: 3
      storage:
         type: ephemeral
   entityOperator:
      topicOperator: {}
      userOperator: {}
```

Once the cluster is running, let's deploy some topics where we will send and receive the messages.
Here is an example topic configuration. You can change it to suit your requirements.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaTopic
metadata:
  name: my-topic-two
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: <CLUSTER-NAME>
spec:
  partitions: 10
  replicas: 3
  config:
    retention.ms: 7200000
    segment.bytes: 1073741824
    # ...
```

### Creating a proposal `reassignment.json` file

When you have a Kafka cluster running with brokers and topics, you are ready to create the proposal JSON file.

Let us create a separate interactive pod.
This interactive pod is used to run all the reassignment commands. 

> One question might bug you. What is the need of a separate pod? Can't we just use one of the broker pods?

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You may ask why we are using a separate pod to run the commands? Can't we just use one of the broker pods?
```

> In answer to this question, running commands from within a broker is not good practice.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The issue is that running commands from within a broker is not good practice.
```

> It will start another JVM inside the container designated for the broker and can cause disruption, cause the container to run out of memory and so on.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Running any of the Kafka `/bin` scripts from within the broker container will start another JVM (with all the same settings as the Kafka broker).
This can cause disruption, including causing the container to run out of memory.
```

So it is always better to avoid running the command from a broker pod.

So now it's time to get our interactive pod up and running. You can use the following command:

```sh
kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:0.27.0-kafka-3.0.0 <INTERACTIVE-POD-NAME> -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"
```

> Wait till the pod gets into the `Ready` state. Once the pod gets into `Ready` state, now our next step will be to generate our `topics.json` file. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Wait till the pod gets into the `Ready` state. 
Once it is ready, our next step will be to generate our `topics.json` file. 
```

As we discussed above, this file will have the topics that we need to reassign.

Now a good question arises. What topics require reassignment?

> The answer to this is the topics that have their partitions assigned to broker `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-3` and `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4` need reassignment, or these topics partition should move to the remaining 3 brokers nodes in our cluster.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The answer to this is the topics that have their partitions assigned to broker `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-3` and `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4` need reassignment, these topics partition should move to the remaining 3 brokers nodes in our cluster.
```

2. If the throttle is too high, clients will be impacted.

## Actions that can be executed while using the tool

It has three different actions:

| Action | Description |
| :-----------: | ------------- |
| `generate`  | Takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file. This actions is optional if we already have `reassignment.json` file with us.|
| `execute` | Takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. The `reassignment.json` file can be either the one proposed by the `--generate` command or written by the user itself. |
| `verify`  | Using the same reassignment JSON file as the `--execute` step, `--verify` checks whether all the partitions in the file have been moved to their intended brokers. If the reassignment is complete, `--verify` also removes any replication quotas (`--throttle`) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished. |

## Example time

Let us understand the working of this tool with an interesting problem.

> Suppose we have 5 Kafka Brokers and after looking at the partition details we get to realize that the brokers are not too busy, so we can scale them down to 3.

Reviewer 5: `we get to realize` -> `we realize`.

The Kafka reassignment partition tool can help you address a variety of use cases.

Some of these are listed here:

1. You can reassign the partition between the brokers anytime. For example, it can be used at times when you want to scale down the number of brokers in your cluster.
   You can assign partitions from the broker to be scaled down to other brokers which will handle these partitions now.

2. With the help of this tool, you can increase the number of partitions / replicas which can help with increasing the throughput of the topic.

## Partition Reassignment Throttle
Reassigning partitions between brokers can sometimes lead to a large transfer of large data.
To avoid overloading the cluster, it is recommended to always set a throttle rate to limit the bandwidth used by the reassignment. 
This can be done using the `--throttle` flag which sets the maximum allowed bandwidth in bytes, for example `--throttle 5000000` sets the limit to 50 MB/s.

Throttling might cause the reassignment to take longer to complete.

1. If the throttle is too low, the newly assigned brokers will not be able to keep up with records being published and the reassignment will never complete.

> 2. If the throttle is too high, the overall health of the cluster may be impacted.

Reviewer 2: It would be much more useful to the reader to point to the name of the metric used to monitor how much the newly assigned broker is lagging behind the leader.

## Actions that can be executed while using the tool

It has three different actions:

| Action | Description |
| :-----------: | ------------- |
| `generate`  | Takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file. This actions is optional if we already have `reassignment.json` file with us.|

> | `execute` | Takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. The `reassignment.json` file can be either the one proposed by the `--generate` command or written by the user itself. |

Reviewer 2: > `--generate` command

You just referred to it as the "generate action". You should try to use consistent terminology. So you should probably explain that the tool has these modes (which you have), _which are selected using the correspondingly named option_ (which you're missing).

We will generate the JSON data that will be used in the `reassignment.json` file.
We will then assign the partitions to the remaining broker using the `reassignment.json` file.
The Kafka Cluster will be configured to use PLAIN listener.

Before proceeding towards the steps. Let's discuss one more curious question. Can you scale down any pod you want through this process?
So the answer to this question is no. Wondering why?
It is due to the fact Strimzi uses StatefulSets to manage broker pods. So you cannot remove any pod from the cluster.
You can only remove one or more of the highest numbered pods from the cluster. For example, in a cluster of 5 brokers the pods are named `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-0` up to `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4`.
If you decide to scale down by two brokers, then `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4` and `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-3` will be removed.

### Preparing to scale down the number of Kafka Brokers

This example will use a Kafka cluster deployed with the Strimzi Cluster Operator.
Before we start with anything, we have to install the Strimzi Cluster Operator and deploy the Kafka cluster.
You can install the Cluster Operator with any installation method you prefer.

> The Kafka cluster is then deployed with the PLAIN listener enabled on port 9092.

Reviewer 2: Some readers might want to follow along and be prepared to stand up a cluster to do so (and for experimenting), others might have an existing cluster they actually want to scale down, so you need to provide enough context for any reader to be able to apply what they're reading to their situation.

I think you need to say something like "If you want to follow along you'll need a cluster that looks like...", and also something like "If you already have an existing cluster with a plain listener you can skip this section"

Example Kafka configuration with PLAIN authentication.
```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: <CLUSTER-NAME>
spec:
  kafka:
    replicas: 5
    listeners:
      - name: plain
        port: 9092
        type: internal
        tls: false
    config:
      offsets.topic.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.min.isr: 2
    storage:
      type: jbod
      volumes:
      - id: 0
        type: persistent-claim
        size: 100Gi
  zookeeper:
    replicas: 3
    storage:
      type: persistent-claim
      size: 100Gi
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
    userOperator: {}
```

> Once the cluster is running, let's deploy some topics where we will send and receive the messages.

Author: Do you mean pointing towards our documentation on deploying strimzi and the the other kafka yamls?

> Once the cluster is running, let's deploy some topics where we will send and receive the messages.

Reviewer 5: Yes, just 1 line with a link should be enough

          patternType: literal
        operation: Write
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-two
          patternType: literal
        operation: Read
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-two
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"   
      - resource:
           type: topic
           name: my-topic-two
           patternType: literal
        operation: DescribeConfigs
        host: "*"
      - resource:
           type: topic
           name: my-topic-two
           patternType: literal
        operation: AlterConfigs
        host: "*"        
      - resource:
           type: cluster
           name: <CLUSTER-NAME>
           patternType: literal
        operation: Alter
        host: "*"
      - resource:
           type: cluster
           name: <CLUSTER-NAME>
           patternType: literal
        operation: AlterConfigs
        host: "*"        
  # ...
```

### Creating a proposal `reassignment.json` file

When you have a Kafka cluster running with brokers and topics, you are ready to create the proposal JSON file.

> Let us create a separate interactive pod.
> This interactive pod is used to run all the reassignment commands. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let us create a separate interactive pod for running all the reassignment commands. 
```

```
which will give us the following output:

```shell
Topic: my-topic-two     TopicId: _aUFY9oMSjqBjvP9Ed3JDg PartitionCount: 10      ReplicationFactor: 3    Configs: min.insync.replicas=2,segment.bytes=1073741824,retention.ms=7200000,message.format.version=3.0-IV1
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 0    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,3,1 Isr: 0,3,1
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 1    Leader: 1       Replicas: 1,0,4 Isr: 1,0,4
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 2    Leader: 4       Replicas: 4,1,2 Isr: 4,1,2
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 3    Leader: 2       Replicas: 2,4,3 Isr: 2,4,3
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 4    Leader: 3       Replicas: 3,2,0 Isr: 3,2,0
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 5    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,1,4 Isr: 0,1,4
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 6    Leader: 1       Replicas: 1,4,2 Isr: 1,4,2
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 7    Leader: 4       Replicas: 4,2,3 Isr: 4,2,3
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 8    Leader: 2       Replicas: 2,3,0 Isr: 2,3,0
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 9    Leader: 3       Replicas: 3,0,1 Isr: 3,0,1
```

> In the same way you can get the details for the other topic`my-topic` also.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the same way you can get the details for the other topic `my-topic` also.
```

```sh

> Topic: my-topic TopicId: WyFKVZzLS8i54IGgm1ifrQ PartitionCount: 10      ReplicationFactor: 3    Configs: min.insync.replicas=2,segment.bytes=1073741824,retention.ms=7200000,message.format.version=3.0-IV1

Reviewer 5: As a user, if I followed the steps above, will I also get 2 topics with only one of them spread onto all 5 brokers?

Author: No. I guess I ran the partition reassign command earlier that why the other topic is spread on only 3 brokers

Reviewer 5: Since we have a full section on setting up an environment, it's a shame readers can't reproduce it and follow along.

Author: So should I get some fresh example?

Author: @mimaison Can I write a note here stating that the topic details might differ for them?

        Topic: my-topic Partition: 9    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,1,2 Isr: 0,2,1
```

From the above outputs, we got to know that my-topic-two has some replicas on broker 3 and 4 thus we need to reassign this topic onto other brokers. 

Let's create our `topics.json` file:
```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "topics": [
    { "topic": "my-topic-two"}
  ]
}
```

After creating this file, copy it to the interactive pod container since we will be running all of our commands from there:

```sh
kubectl cp topics.json <INTERACTIVE-POD-NAME>:/tmp/topics.json
```

We can now start a shell process in our interactive pod container and run the command inside it to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data.
Let's start the shell process:

```sh
kubectl exec -ti <INTERACTIVE-POD-NAME> /bin/bash
```

Now it's time to generate the `reassignment.json` file. 
We will use the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` command to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data:

```sh
bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server <CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \
--topics-to-move-json-file /tmp/topics.json \
--broker-list 0,1,2 \
--generate
```

> Here `topics-to-move-json-file` points towards the `topics.json file` and `--broker-list` is the list of broker which will now handle the partitions which are present with the broker to be scaled down.

Reviewer 5: `broker` -> `brokers`
`which will now handle the partitions which are present with the broker to be scaled down.` -> `we want to move our partitions onto`

Proposed partition reassignment configuration
{"version":1,"partitions":[{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":0,"replicas":[2,0,1],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":1,"replicas":[0,1,2],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":2,"replicas":[1,2,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":3,"replicas":[2,1,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":4,"replicas":[0,2,1],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":5,"replicas":[1,0,2],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":6,"replicas":[2,0,1],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":7,"replicas":[0,1,2],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":8,"replicas":[1,2,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":9,"replicas":[2,1,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]}]}

```

> Now you can copy this proposed `reassignment.json` data and paste it in a `reassignment.json` file, which will be copied to our interactive pod container in the next step.

Reviewer 5: `this proposed `reassignment.json` data` -> `this proposed  partition reassignment`

Reviewer 5: Do we need `, which will be copied to our interactive pod container in the next step.` here? We repeat it again just below

> ### Scaling down the cluster

Reviewer 5: Before scaling, should we actually finish the reassignment?

Coming to the last step of this example, here we will see how we use the generated `reassignment.json` to get the reassignment done by the reassignment partition tool.

> Since we have copied the `reassignment.json` data into the `reassignment.json` file in the previous step, now we can use it for our next step.

Reviewer 5: These 2 paragraphs just repeat what's already been told just above.

  kafka:
    version: 3.1.0
    replicas: 3   // changed to 3 from 5
    listeners:
      - name: plain
        port: 9092
        type: internal
        tls: false
....        
```

Now apply the Kafka resource and check the pods in the namespace:
```sh
kubectl get pods
```

You will notice that `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-3` and `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4` are removed u:

```sh
NAME                                          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
my-cluster-entity-operator-59b74b79b6-xwxgj   3/3     Running   0          3h28m
my-cluster-kafka-0                            1/1     Running   0          91s
my-cluster-kafka-1                            1/1     Running   0          2m32s
my-cluster-kafka-2                            1/1     Running   0          2m1s
my-cluster-zookeeper-0                        1/1     Running   2          3h31m
my-cluster-zookeeper-1                        1/1     Running   2          3h31m
my-cluster-zookeeper-2                        1/1     Running   0          3h31m
my-pod                                        1/1     Running   0          46m
strimzi-cluster-operator-8759c8f5d-z4n4v      1/1     Running   0          3h34m
```

# Conclusion

> This example provides a brief introduction to the `--generate`, `--execute`, and `--verify` actions of the Kafka reassignment partition tool. These are the crucial points you should know before attempting a reassignment of partitions in your Kafka cluster.

Reviewer 5: `a reassignment of partitions` -> `reassigning partitions`

> You can also take a look at our documentation on using the partition reassignment file for [Scaling up the Kafka cluster](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/in-development/using.html#proc-scaling-up-a-kafka-cluster-str) and [Scaling down the Kafka cluster](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/in-development/using.html#proc-scaling-down-a-kafka-cluster-str).

Reviewer 5: `partition reassignment file`? Do you mean tool?

---
layout: post

> title:  "Reassigning partitions in Kafka Cluster"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title:  "Reassigning partitions in Apache Kafka Cluster"
```

date: 2021-09-23
author: shubham_rawat
---

> As a Kafka user, we sometimes have to scale up/down our kafka brokers depending on the use case. Addition of extra brokers can be an advantage to handle massive load, and we can use Cruise Control for general rebalancing in Strimzi since it allows us to automate the balancing of load across the cluster but what if we are scaling down the clusters. Let us understand this with the help of an example, suppose there are certain number of brokers in a cluster and now we want to remove a broker from the cluster. We need to make sure that the broker which is going to be removed should not have any assigned partitions. Cruise Control currently doesn't support scaling down the cluster. This requires a tool that can assign the partitions from the broker to be removed, to the remaining brokers. The most convenient tool for this job is the Kafka reassignment partition tool: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh`.

Reviewer 3: * Kafka => capital K. Maybe since it is the first one you can use Apache Kafka?
* should be confirmed by our CC experts. But I suspect Cruise Control can reassing the parittions when scaling down the cluster. It is just that Strimzi's integration of Cruise cotnrol does not support it. That needs to be clear to not cause confusion.

> As an Apache Kafka user, we sometimes have to scale up/down the number of Kafka brokers in our cluster depending on the use case. Addition of extra brokers can be an advantage to handle massive load, and we can use Cruise Control for general rebalancing in Strimzi since it allows us to automate the balancing of load across the cluster but what if we are scaling down the clusters. Let us understand this with the help of an example, suppose there are certain number of brokers in a cluster and now we want to remove a broker from the cluster. We need to make sure that the broker which is going to be removed should not have any assigned partitions. Strimzi's integration of Cruise Control currently doesn't support scaling down the cluster. This requires a tool that can assign the partitions from the broker to be removed, to the remaining brokers. The most convenient tool for this job is the Kafka reassignment partition tool: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh`.

Reviewer 4: General advice I make everytime to people starting to write blog posts or proposals: it's much better having one sentence per line, because it helps reviewers to make specific suggestion.
For example, in this case if I want to make a suggestion on the first line but then on the fifth line, I can make just one comment here because how GitHub works. Having the sentences on different lines helps on comment as well.
In this case I am lucky :-) ... my comment is about the last line ... I would avoid to specify the name of the shell script but just mentioning "Kafka reassignment partition tool".

<!--more-->

## Why use the Kafka reassignment partition tool?

The Kafka reassignment partition tool can help you address a variety of use cases.

> Some of these are listed here :-

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some of these are listed here:
```

> 1. You can reassign the partition between the brokers anytime. For eg. it can be used at times when you want to scale down your cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. You can reassign the partition between the brokers anytime. For example it can be used at times when you want to scale down your cluster.
```

   You can assign partitions from the broker to be scaled down to other brokers which will handle these partitions now.

> 2. With the help of this tool,you can increase the no. of partitions/replicas which can help in increasing the throughput of the topic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. With the help of this tool, you can increase the no. of partitions / replicas which can help with increasing the throughput of the topic.
```

> 2. 2. With the help of this tool, you can increase the no. of partitions / replicas which can help with increasing the throughput of the topic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. With the help of this tool, you can increase the no. of partitions / replicas which can help with increasing the throughput of the topic.
```

> ##  Kafka reassignment partition tool

Reviewer 3: For consideration ... Wouldn't it make more sense to have this chapterfirst before `Why use the Kafka reassignment partition tool?`?

Author: Yes I think that but according to Tom's comment I guess he wanted this to come first

Author: I have the changes though since I feel that Introduction should come first and I am now displaying the use of tool in the start of the blog

Reviewer 4: Yeah, tbh I feel that the previous order was much better. Now we have the reader "overwhelmed" with technical details about the tool before he knows why to do it. Out of curiosity, @scholzj why did you find wrong the previous order?

Reviewer 3: Well, I think the logical order does not make sense. You cannot really ask _Why use the Kafka reassignment partition tool?_ before actually introducing the tool and explaining what it is. I agree that describing all the different options is not needed for that. So maybe instead of simply reordering the sections they need to be changed more significantly. Or the titles might need to be changed.

| `generate`  | Takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file which will result in the partitions of those topics being assigned to those brokers. Because this operates on whole topics, it cannot be used when you only want to reassign some partitions for some topics.|
| `execute` | Takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. The `reassignment.json` file can be either the one proposed by the `--generate` command or written by the user itself. |
| `verify`  | Using the same reassignment JSON file as the `--execute` step, `--verify` checks whether all the partitions in the file have been moved to their intended brokers. If the reassignment is complete, `--verify` also removes any traffic throttles (`--throttle`) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished. |

## Example time

Let us understand the working of this tool with an interesting problem
Suppose we have 5 kafka Brokers and after looking at the partition details we get to realize that the brokers are not too busy, so we can scale them down to 3.

> Through this interesting example we will take a look at how the three phases of the Kafka reassignment partition tool(`--generate`, `--execute` and `--verify`) works.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Through this example we will take a look at how the three phases of the Kafka reassignment partition tool(`--generate`, `--execute` and `--verify`) works.
```

We will generate the JSON data that will be used in the `reassignment.json` file.

> We will then scale down the Kafka cluster using the generated `reassignment.json` file.

Reviewer 4: This sentence is misleading I think. You are not scaling down the Kafka cluster using a reassignment JSON file, what did you mean really?

spec:
  partitions: 10
  replicas: 3
  config:
    retention.ms: 7200000
    segment.bytes: 1073741824
    # ...
```

Now we require a kafka user.
We will configure the kafka user with ACL rules that specify permission to produce and consume topics from the Kafka brokers.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaUser
metadata:
  name: my-user
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: <CLUSTER-NAME>
spec:
  authentication:
    type: tls
  authorization:
    type: simple
    acls:
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Write
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Read
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"   
      - resource:
           type: topic
           name: my-topic-1
           patternType: literal
        operation: DescribeConfigs
        host: "*"
      - resource:
           type: topic
           name: my-topic-1
           patternType: literal

>         operation: AlterConfigs

Reviewer 3: Should the topic name here be the same as in the topic above,

We can easily extract the cluster CA certificate and password from the `<CLUSTER-NAME>-cluster-ca-cert` Secret (where `<CLUSTER-NAME>` denotes the name of the cluster) using the following commands:

```sh
kubectl get secret CLUSTER-NAME-cluster-ca-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.p12}' | base64 -d > ca.p12
```

```sh
kubectl get secret CLUSTER-NAME-cluster-ca-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.password}' | base64 -d > ca.password
```

Let us create a separate interactive pod.
This interactive pod is used to run all the reassignment commands. 
One question might bug you. What is the need of a separate pod? Can't we just use one of the broker pods?
In answer to this question, running commands from within a broker is not good practice as it's insecure
It will start another JVM inside the container designated for the broker and can cause disruption, cause the container to run out of memory and so on.
So it is always better to avoid running the command from a broker pod.

So now it's time to get our interactive pod up and running. You can use the following command:

```sh

> kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:0.27.0-kafka-3.0.0 <interactive_pod_name> -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"

Reviewer 3: You now use everywhere `<...>` for the values which should be replaced. But the content is still different:
* Uppercase versus lowercase
* `-` versus `_`

Proposed partition reassignment configuration
{"version":1,"partitions":[{"topic":"my-topic-1","partition":0,"replicas":[0,1,2],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-1","partition":1,"replicas":[1,2,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-1","partition":2,"replicas":[2,0,1],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-1","partition":3,"replicas":[0,2,1],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-1","partition":4,"replicas":[1,0,2],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-1","partition":5,"replicas":[2,1,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-1","partition":6,"replicas":[0,1,2],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-1","partition":7,"replicas":[1,2,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-1","partition":8,"replicas":[2,0,1],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-1","partition":9,"replicas":[0,2,1],"log_dirs":["any","any","any"]}]}
```

> Now you can create a `reassignment.json` file and  copy this proposed `reassignment.json` data to use in the `reassignment.json` file. You can also create/alter the `reassignment.json` data in the file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now you can create a `reassignment.json` file and copy this proposed `reassignment.json` data to use in the `reassignment.json` file. You can also create/alter the `reassignment.json` data in the file.
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Reassigning partitions in Apache Kafka Cluster"
date: 2021-09-23
author: shubham_rawat
---

As Apache Kafka users, we sometimes have to scale up/down the number of Kafka brokers in our cluster depending on the use case.
Addition of extra brokers can be an advantage to handle massive load, and we can use Cruise Control for general rebalancing in Strimzi since it allows us to automate the balancing of load across the cluster but what if we are scaling down the clusters?
Let us understand this with the help of an example, suppose there are certain number of brokers in a cluster and now we want to remove a broker from the cluster.

> We need to make sure that the broker which is going to be removed should not have any assigned partitions. Strimzi's integration of Cruise Control currently doesn't support doing this for you.

Author: I tried to find the proposal link but looks like it is not pushed upstream yet

> We need to make sure that the broker which is going to be removed should not have any assigned partitions. Strimzi's integration of Cruise Control currently doesn't support doing this for you.

Reviewer 4: @ShubhamRwt that's the link of the proposal https://github.com/strimzi/proposals/pull/52

While using the tool, you have to provide it with either of these two JSON files: `topics.json` and `reassignment.json`.
Wondering what these two JSON files really do? Let's talk a bit about them:

- The `topic.json` basically consists of the topics that we want to reassign or move. Based on this JSON file, our tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` that we can use directly or modify further.

- The `reassignment.json` file is a configuration file that is used during the partition reassignment process. The reassignment partition tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` file based on a `topics.json` file. You can change the `reassignment.json` file as per your requirement and use it.

## Why use the Kafka reassignment partition tool?

The Kafka reassignment partition tool can help you address a variety of use cases.

Some of these are listed here:

- You can reassign partitions between the brokers. For example, it can be used when you want to scale down the number of brokers in your cluster.
   You can assign partitions from the broker to be scaled down to other brokers which will handle these partitions now.

> - You can increase the number of partitions / replicas which can help with increasing the throughput of topics.

Author: I have now addressed it in the changes I will push

## Partition Reassignment Throttle

> Reassigning partitions between brokers often leads to additional interbroker network traffic, in addition to the normal traffic required for replication.To avoid overloading the cluster, it is recommended to always set a throttle rate to limit the bandwidth used by the reassignment. 

Reviewer 5: Missing space in `replication.To`

Reviewer 5: Should we fix this one?

> This can be done using the `--throttle` flag which sets the maximum allowed bandwidth in bytes, for example `--throttle 5000000` sets the limit to 5 MB/s.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be done using the `--throttle` flag which sets the maximum allowed bandwidth in bytes per second, for example `--throttle 5000000` sets the limit to 5 MB/s.
```

Throttling might cause the reassignment to take longer to complete.

1. If the throttle is too low, the newly assigned brokers will not be able to keep up with records being published and the reassignment will never complete.

2. If the throttle is too high, the overall health of the cluster may be impacted.

> The best way to set the value for throttle is to start with a safe value, and if it's too low, then run the command again to update the throttle till it's good.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The best way to set the value for throttle is to start with a safe value. 
If the lag is growing, or decreasing too slowly to catch up within a reasonable time, then the throttle should be increased. 
To do this, run the command again to increase the throttle, iterating until it looks like the broker will join the ISR within a reasonable time.
```

Author: Added the metrics name @tombentley

## Actions that can be executed while using the tool

It has three different actions:

| Action | Description |
| :-----------: | ------------- |

> | `generate`  | Takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file. This actions is optional if we already have `reassignment.json` file with us. You can use this actions using `--generate`|

Reviewer 5: `actions` -> `action`

Reviewer 5: Can we fix this typo too

> | `execute` | Takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. The `reassignment.json` file can be either the one proposed by the `generate` action or written by the user itself. `--execute`  is used to carry out this action |

Reviewer 5: We can remove `itself`

| `verify`  | Using the same reassignment JSON file as the `--execute` step, `--verify` checks whether all the partitions in the file have been moved to their intended brokers. If the reassignment is complete, `--verify` also removes any replication quotas (`--throttle`) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished. This action can be executed using `--verify` |

## Example time

Let us understand the working of this tool with a concrete example.

> Suppose we have 5 Kafka Brokers and after looking at the partition details we realize that the brokers are not too busy, so we can scale them down to 3.

Reviewer 5: I know it's late but I wonder if a scaling up scenario would be more relevant

Reviewer 3: Scale-up is something what you can also do witht he Cruise Control integration. That is not available for scale-down where manual reassignment is the only option. So the idea was to show where it is useful and where it doesn't necessarily compete with Cruise Control.

Reviewer 5: I see, that makes sense.

Reviewer 6: In strimzi main CC can now do scale down as well so you could discuss that as an alternative in an upcoming Strimzi release.

> Through this example we will take a look at how the three actions of the Kafka reassignment partition tool(`--generate`, `--execute` and `--verify`) works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Through this example we will take a look at how the three actions of the Kafka reassignment partition tool(`--generate`, `--execute` and `--verify`) work.
```

We will generate the JSON data that will be used in the `reassignment.json` file.
We will then assign the partitions to the remaining broker using the `reassignment.json` file.

Before proceeding towards the steps. Let's discuss one more curious question. Can you scale down any pod you want through this process?

> So the answer to this question is no. Wondering why?

Reviewer 2: Not sure we need two rhetorical questions before getting to the point :smiley:

> It is due to the fact Strimzi uses StatefulSets to manage broker pods. So you cannot remove any pod from the cluster.
> You can only remove one or more of the highest numbered pods from the cluster. For example, in a cluster of 5 brokers the pods are named `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-0` up to `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4`.

Reviewer 2: `StatefulSets` isn't really a satisfying explanation to someone who doesn't already know how they work. 
```suggestion
It is due to the fact Strimzi uses StatefulSets to manage broker pods. 
The Kubernetes StatefulSet controller managed pods with contiguous numbers starting from 0. 
So when scaling down it will always remove the the highest numbered pod(s).
For example, in a cluster of 5 brokers the pods are named `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-0` up to `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4`.
```

@mimaison basically it doesn't. You're reliant on kube having assigned the pods in a round-robin way when scheduling them (or rescheduling them). @ShubhamRwt this is probably a point worth making.

If you decide to scale down by two brokers, then `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4` and `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-3` will be removed.

>  The next section will help you set up the environment for executing the above example ie setting up your kafka cluster, kafka topics and also configuring the Kafka user with required ACL's.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The next section will help you set up the environment for executing the above example, i.e. setting up your kafka cluster, kafka topics and also configuring the Kafka user with required ACL's.
```

Note: In case you already have the environment set up, you can skip the next section.

### Setting up the environment

> To get the Kafka cluster up and running , we will first have to install the Strimzi Cluster Operator and then deploy the Kafka resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get the Kafka cluster up and running, we will first have to install the Strimzi Cluster Operator and then deploy the Kafka resource.
```

> To get the kafka cluster up and running , we will first have to install the Strimzi Cluster Operator and then deploy the Kafka resource.

Reviewer 5: `kafka` -> `Kafka`

You can install the Cluster Operator with any installation method you prefer.
The Kafka cluster is then deployed with the plain listener enabled on port 9092.

Example Kafka configuration with plain listener.
```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:

>   name: <CLUSTER-NAME>

Reviewer 5: Can we put a default name? That would allow users to just copy and paste all these examples

When you have a Kafka cluster running with brokers and topics, you are ready to create the proposal JSON file.

Let us create a separate interactive pod.
This interactive pod is used to run all the reassignment commands. 
One question might bug you. What is the need of a separate pod? Can't we just use one of the broker pods?
In answer to this question, running commands from within a broker is not good practice.
It will start another JVM inside the container designated for the broker and can cause disruption, cause the container to run out of memory and so on.
So it is always better to avoid running the command from a broker pod.

So now it's time to get our interactive pod up and running. You can use the following command:

```sh
kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:0.27.0-kafka-3.0.0 <INTERACTIVE-POD-NAME> -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"
```

Wait till the pod gets into the `Ready` state. Once the pod gets into `Ready` state, now our next step will be to generate our `topics.json` file. 
As we discussed above, this file will have the topics that we need to reassign.

Now arises a good question. What topics require reassignment?

> So the answer to this is the topics that have their partitions assigned to broker `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-3` and `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4` needs reassignment, and these topics partition should move to the remaining 3 brokers nodes in our cluster.

Reviewer 5: `and` -> `or`

> So the answer to this is the topics that have their partitions assigned to broker `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-3` and `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4` needs reassignment, and these topics partition should move to the remaining 3 brokers nodes in our cluster.

Reviewer 5: Can we fix these typos too?

In the same way you can get the details for the other topic `my-topic` also.

```sh
Topic: my-topic TopicId: WyFKVZzLS8i54IGgm1ifrQ PartitionCount: 10      ReplicationFactor: 3    Configs: min.insync.replicas=2,segment.bytes=1073741824,retention.ms=7200000,message.format.version=3.0-IV1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 0    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,2,1 Isr: 0,2,1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 1    Leader: 2       Replicas: 2,1,0 Isr: 0,2,1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 2    Leader: 1       Replicas: 1,0,2 Isr: 0,2,1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 3    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,1,2 Isr: 0,2,1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 4    Leader: 2       Replicas: 2,0,1 Isr: 0,2,1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 5    Leader: 1       Replicas: 1,2,0 Isr: 0,2,1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 6    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,2,1 Isr: 0,2,1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 7    Leader: 2       Replicas: 2,1,0 Isr: 0,2,1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 8    Leader: 1       Replicas: 1,0,2 Isr: 0,2,1
        Topic: my-topic Partition: 9    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,1,2 Isr: 0,2,1
```

> From the above outputs, we got to know that my-topic-two has some replicas on broker 3 and 4 thus we need to reassign this topic onto other brokers. 

Reviewer 5: `we got to know that my-topic-two` -> `we see that my-topic-two` and put backticks around `my-topic-two`

```
Now you can copy this proposed partition reassignment and paste it in a `reassignment.json` file, which will be copied to our interactive pod container in the next step.

### Finishing up the reassignment

Let's copy the `reassignment.json` file to the interactive pod container.

```sh
kubectl cp reassignment.json <INTERACTIVE-POD-NAME>:/tmp/reassignment.json
```

Now we'll start a shell process inside the interactive pod container to run our Kafka bin script.
```sh
kubectl exec -ti <INTERACTIVE-POD-NAME> /bin/bash
```

So let's run the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` script now to start the partition reassignment 

```sh
bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server <CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \
--reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \ 
--execute
```

If you want to throttle replication, you can also pass the --throttle option with an inter-broker throttled rate in bytes per second. For example:

```sh
bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server <CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \
--reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \ 
--throttle <THROTTLE_BYTE_PER_SECOND> \
--execute
```

> You can use the `--verify` action to check if the partition reassignment is done or if it is still running. You might have to run this command multiple times since it may take the process a while to get complete.

Reviewer 5: `to get complete` -> `to complete`

        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 4    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,2,1 Isr: 2,0,1
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 5    Leader: 0       Replicas: 1,0,2 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 6    Leader: 1       Replicas: 2,0,1 Isr: 1,2,0
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 7    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,1,2 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 8    Leader: 2       Replicas: 1,2,0 Isr: 2,0,1
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 9    Leader: 2       Replicas: 2,1,0 Isr: 0,1,2 
```
As you can see the partition are now removed from the pod to be scaled down and now they can be removed without any problems.

### Scaling down the cluster

Let's change the replicas to 3 now in the Kafka resource:

```sh
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    version: 3.1.0
    replicas: 3   // changed to 3 from 5
    listeners:
      - name: plain
        port: 9092
        type: internal
        tls: false
....        
```

Now apply the Kafka resource and check the pods in the namespace:
```sh
kubectl get pods
```

> You will notice that `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-3` and `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4` are removed u:

Reviewer 5: Extra `u` at the end

- You can reassign partitions between the brokers. For example, it can be used when you want to scale down the number of brokers in your cluster.
   You can assign partitions from the broker to be scaled down to other brokers which will handle these partitions now.

- You can increase the number of partitions / replicas which can help with increasing the throughput of topics.

## Partition Reassignment Throttle
Reassigning partitions between brokers often leads to additional interbroker network traffic, in addition to the normal traffic required for replication. To avoid overloading the cluster, it is recommended to always set a throttle rate to limit the bandwidth used by the reassignment. 
This can be done using the `--throttle` flag which sets the maximum allowed bandwidth in bytes per second, for example `--throttle 5000000` sets the limit to 5 MB/s.

Throttling might cause the reassignment to take longer to complete.

1. If the throttle is too low, the newly assigned brokers will not be able to keep up with records being published and the reassignment will never complete.

2. If the throttle is too high, the overall health of the cluster may be impacted.

> You can use the `kafka.server:type=FetcherLagMetrics,name=ConsumerLag,clientId=([-.\w]+),topic=([-.\w]+),partition=([0-9]+)` metric (which with the default spec.metrics settings in your Kafka CR would appear be scraped by Prometheus as `kafka_server-fetcherlagmetrics_consumerlag`) to observe how far the followers are lagging behind the leader

Reviewer 4: Multiple things here ...

1. there is no `spec.metrics` settings in the Kafka CR. The field is `spec.kafka.metricsConfig`.
2. there is no default for it. I mean, if it's missing no metrics are exposed. If the corresponding ConfigMap has an "empty" JMX exporter configuration then all metrics are exposed.
3. I guess you are referring to the example we have in the `kafka-metrics.yaml`. You should explicitly refers to it or to the pattern used for exposing such a metric (I would probably prefer to refer to the example).

---
layout: post
title:  "Reassigning partitions in Apache Kafka Cluster"
date: 2021-09-23
author: shubham_rawat
---

> As Apache Kafka users, we sometimes have to scale up/down the number of Kafka brokers in our cluster depending on the use case.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
As Apache Kafka users, we sometimes want to scale up/down the number of Kafka brokers in our cluster depending on the use case.
```

> As Apache Kafka users, we sometimes have to scale up/down the number of Kafka brokers in our cluster depending on the use case.

Reviewer 7: You might want to say something more concrete about the "use case".

e.g. 
"...we sometimes want to scale up/down the number of Kafka brokers in our cluster in response to the load on the cluster."

I guess scaling in response to load is the only reason? (Up for greater load, down when you can save money because the load is low.)

Addition of extra brokers can be an advantage to handle increased load, and we can use Cruise Control for general rebalancing in Strimzi since it allows us to automate the balancing of load across the cluster but what if we are scaling down the clusters?
Let us understand this with the help of an example, suppose there are certain number of brokers in a cluster and now we want to remove a broker from the cluster.

> We need to make sure that the broker which is going to be removed should not have any assigned partitions. Strimzi's integration of Cruise Control currently doesn't support doing this for you, but we are working on it [strimzi/proposals#52](https://github.com/strimzi/proposals/pull/52).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
We need to make sure that the broker which is going to be removed does not have any assigned partitions. Strimzi's integration of Cruise Control currently doesn't support doing this for you, but we are working on it [strimzi/proposals#52](https://github.com/strimzi/proposals/pull/52).
```

Example Kafka configuration with plain listener.
```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: <CLUSTER-NAME>
spec:
  kafka:
    replicas: 5
    listeners:
      - name: plain
        port: 9092
        type: internal
        tls: false
    config:
      offsets.topic.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.min.isr: 2
    storage:
      type: jbod
      volumes:
      - id: 0
        type: persistent-claim
        size: 100Gi
  zookeeper:
    replicas: 3
    storage:
      type: persistent-claim
      size: 100Gi
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
    userOperator: {}
```

Once the cluster is running, let's deploy some topics where we will send and receive the messages.
Here is an example topic configuration. You can change it to suit your requirements.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaTopic
metadata:
  name: my-topic-two
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: <CLUSTER-NAME>
spec:
  partitions: 10
  replicas: 3
  config:
    retention.ms: 7200000
    segment.bytes: 1073741824
    # ...
```

> Now we require a Kafka user.

Author: I changed the authentication and authorization from TLS to plain. I will remove the use of User and currently generating a new example

        host: "*"        
  # ...
```

### Creating a proposal `reassignment.json` file

When you have a Kafka cluster running with brokers and topics, you are ready to create the proposal JSON file.

Let us create a separate interactive pod.
This interactive pod is used to run all the reassignment commands. 
One question might bug you. What is the need of a separate pod? Can't we just use one of the broker pods?
In answer to this question, running commands from within a broker is not good practice.
It will start another JVM inside the container designated for the broker and can cause disruption, cause the container to run out of memory and so on.
So it is always better to avoid running the command from a broker pod.

So now it's time to get our interactive pod up and running. You can use the following command:

```sh
kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:0.27.0-kafka-3.0.0 <INTERACTIVE-POD-NAME> -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"
```

Wait till the pod gets into the `Ready` state. Once the pod gets into `Ready` state, now our next step will be to generate our `topics.json` file. 
As we discussed above, this file will have the topics that we need to reassign.

> Now arises a good question. What topics require reassignment?

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Now a good question arises. What topics require reassignment?
```

> So the answer to this is the topics that have their partitions assigned to broker `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-3` and `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4` need reassignment, or these topics partition should move to the remaining 3 brokers nodes in our cluster.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The answer to this is the topics that have their partitions assigned to broker `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-3` and `<CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-4` need reassignment, or these topic partitions should move to the remaining 3 brokers nodes in our cluster.
```

You can copy this proposed partition reassignment and paste it in a local `reassignment.json` file

Edit the `reassignment.json` to remove a replica from each partition, for example using `jq` to simply remove the last replica in the list for each partition of the topic:

```sh
echo "$( jq 'del(.partitions[].replicas[3])' reassignment.json)" > reassignment.json
```

We then copy the modified `reassignment.json` file to the interactive pod container.

```sh
kubectl cp reassignment.json my-pod:/tmp/reassignment.json
```
Now we'll start a shell process inside the interactive pod container to run our Kafka bin script.

```sh
kubectl exec -ti my-pod /bin/bash -- bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \
--reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \
--execute
```
Because removing replicas from a broker doesn't require any interbroker data movement there is no need to supply a `--throttle` in this case.
(Interbroker data movement would be needed if you were increasing the replication factor, so in that case a `--throttle` would be recommended).
Since deleting data is very quick the reassignment will probably be complete almost immediately.

> We can use the `--verify` action to when if the partition reassignment is done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use the `--verify` action to check if the partition reassignment is done.
```

```sh
kubectl exec -ti my-pod /bin/bash -- bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \
--reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \
--verify
```

The `--verify` action reports if the assignment is done or not.

```sh
Status of partition reassignment:
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-0 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-1 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-2 is complete.

Clearing broker-level throttles on brokers 0,1,2,3,4
Clearing topic-level throttles on topic my-topic-two
```

We can validate that each of the partitions now has three replicas:

Topic: my-topic-two     TopicId: Gm-DqwrbT82PAEOE160Djw PartitionCount: 3       ReplicationFactor: 3    Configs: min.insync.replicas=2,segment.bytes=1073741824,retention.ms=7200000,message.format.version=3.0-IV1
Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 0    Leader: 0       Replicas: 0,1,2 Isr: 0,1,2
Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 1    Leader: 2       Replicas: 1,2,3 Isr: 1,2,3

> Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 2    Leader: 3       Replicas: 2,3,4 Isr: 2,3,4

Reviewer: do you want to format this fragment with ```sh?

## Example 2: Changing the preferred leader

Let's now change the preferred leader of `my-topic-two` partition 0.

> The preferred replica is the first one in the list of `Replicas` in the output above, so changing the order of the replicas will change the preferred leader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preferred leader is the first one in the list of `Replicas` in the output above, so changing the order of the replicas will change the preferred leader.
```

> However, doing that won't, on its own, force the current leadership to be changed to match the new preferred leader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, doing that on its own won't force the current leadership to be changed to match the new preferred leader.
```

> Let's start by editing our previous `reassignment.json` file to edit the order of the replicas for partition 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start by editing our previous `reassignment.json` file to edit the order of the replicas for partition 0.
```

```json
{"version":1,"partitions":[{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":0,"replicas":[1,0,2]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":1,"replicas":[1,2,3]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":2,"replicas":[2,3,4]}]}
```

> Now we can use the `--execute` mode to apply our new `reassignment.json` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can use the `--execute` mode to apply our new `reassignment.json` file.
```

```sh
kubectl exec -ti my-pod /bin/bash -- bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \
--reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \
--execute
```

> Now we can use the `--verify` mode to see if the assignment is done or not as we did in the previous example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can use the `--verify` mode to see if the assignment is done or not as we did in the previous example.
```

> Now we can see if the preferred leader is now changed or not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we can see if the preferred leader is now changed or not.
```

```shell
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 0    Leader: 0       Replicas: 1,0,2 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 1    Leader: 2       Replicas: 1,2,3 Isr: 2,3,1
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 2    Leader: 3       Replicas: 2,3,4 Isr: 2,3,4
```

## Example 3: Changing the log dirs 

Let's see how we can move a partition to use a certain JBOD volume.

Assume we have deployed a Kafka Resource with JBOD storage and deployed a topic with `spec.replicas` as 4.

> Now our second task is to check which `logdir` are currently being used by Strimzi. You can use the `kafka-log-dir.sh` tool to check this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can check which log directories (`logdir`) are currently being used by Strimzi using the `kafka-log-dir.sh` tool.
```

      2
    ],
    "log_dirs": [
      "any",
      "any",
      "any",
      "any"
    ]
  },
  {
    "topic": "my-topic-two",
    "partition": 1,
    "replicas": [
      1,
      0,
      2,
      3
    ],
    "log_dirs": [
      "any",
      "any",
      "any",
      "any"
    ]
  },
  {
    "topic": "my-topic-two",
    "partition": 2,
    "replicas": [
      2,
      1,
      3,
      0
    ],
    "log_dirs": [
      "any",
      "any",
      "any",
      "any"
    ]
  }
]
```

Let's edit our `reassignment.json`and make the changes in log directory for partition 1.

```json
[
  {
    "topic": "my-topic-two",
    "partition": 0,
    "replicas": [
      0,
      3,
      1,
      2
    ],
    "log_dirs": [
      "any",
      "any",
      "any",
      "any"
    ]
  },
  {
    "topic": "my-topic-two",
    "partition": 1,
    "replicas": [
      1,
      0,
      2,
      3
    ],
    "log_dirs": [
      "any",
      "/var/lib/kafka/data-1/kafka-log0",
      "any",
      "any"
    ]
  },
  {
    "topic": "my-topic-two",
    "partition": 2,
    "replicas": [
      2,
      1,
      3,
      0
    ],
    "log_dirs": [
      "any",
      "any",
      "any",
      "any"
    ]
  }
]
```

> Now we can use the `--execute` mode of the tool to apply our `reassignment.json` file and after that use the `--verify` mode to check if the assignment is done or not just like we did in the above steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can use the `--execute` mode of the tool to apply our `reassignment.json` file and after that use the `--verify` mode to check if the assignment is done or not just like we did in the previous examples.
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Reassigning partitions in Apache Kafka Cluster"
date: 2021-09-23
author: shubham_rawat
---

Apache Kafka brokers host replicas of partitions. How many and which partitions each broker replicates affects the load on that broker.
One broker often ends up experiencing more load than others, and the most loaded broker can become a bottleneck within the cluster.
Strimzi supports the use of Cruise Control and we recommend using it to balance the load across the brokers.
That's because when there are more than a handful of partitions in your cluster it becomes very hard to find the best, or even a "good enough", assignment.
But sometimes you might need to make small changes to the replica assignment.

> This blog post will guide you through when you might need to do reassignments using Kafka's partition reassignment rool, and how to do so.

Reviewer 4: typo "tool"

> This blog post will guide you through when you might need to do reassignments using Kafka's partition reassignment rool, and how to do so.

Reviewer 3: I would probably change the paragraph structure here. The last sentence of the first paragraph (line 12) looks incomplete without the sentence on line 14 which completes it.

I would either move the sentence from line 12 to form the paragraph with the sentence on line 14. Or join the sentence from line 14 to the initial paragraph.

<!--more-->

##  When to use the Kafka reassignment partition tool

As mentioned, we recommend using Cruise Control where possible.
Currently Strimzi offers first-class support for three use cases:

> * Global cluster balancing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Balancing the whole cluster.
```

  This uses the `KafkaRebalance` custom resource.

> * Automatically assigning replicas to newly-added brokers. This uses a `KafkaRebalance` with `spec.mode` set to `add-broker`, which was added in Strimzi 0.29.

Reviewer 3: It is not automatic at this point from my point of view. You have to trigger it.

```suggestion
* Assigning replicas to newly-added brokers. This uses a `KafkaRebalance` with `spec.mode` set to `add-broker`, which was added in Strimzi 0.29.
```

> * Automatically reassigning replicas away from brokers prior to scaling down the cluster. This uses a `KafkaRebalance` with `spec.model` set to `remove-broker`. This was also added in Strimzi 0.29.

Reviewer 3: Same as above.

These use cases are covered extensively in [the documentation](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/configuring.html#cruise-control-concepts-str).

> So if this is the kind of rebalancing you need you can stop reading the rest of this post.

Reviewer 4: To be honest I would remove this sentence. Let's leave the user reading the blog post anyway not encouraging him to go away.

The Strimzi community is also planning further integration with Cruise Control:

* Simplifying the existing rebalancing functionality using [auto-approval](https://github.com/strimzi/proposals/blob/main/038-optimization-proposal-autoapproval.md).

> * Better supporting [changing the replication factor](https://github.com/strimzi/proposals/pull/50) of individual topics using the Topic Operator.

Reviewer 4: I would also add the automatic rebalancing on scaling up and down proposal https://github.com/strimzi/proposals/pull/57, as an improvement to the current add/remove brokers features you mentioned before

> Until those improvements are implemented it's possible to use the reassignment tool for these cases.

Reviewer 4: How auto-approval proposal/feature is related to the usage of the reassignment tool? I don't see the relationship. So I don't understand this sentence.

- `--verify`: This checks whether reassignment that you previously started (using --execute) has actually completed.

Constructing a reassignment.json can be anything from a bit tedious to a piece of work in its own right. To help with this the tool provides an optional third mode, `--generate`, to generate one from a list of topics you provide in a different JSON file, which we'll be calling topics.json. You can use the reassignment.json that is produced by a --generate invocation directly, or modify it further prior to actually making changes using --execute.

## Partition Reassignment in detail

When you make changes to a partition's assignment to brokers there are three possible cases:

1. Changes which require moving data between brokers.
2. Changes which require moving data between volumes on _the same_ broker.
3. Change which require no data movement at all.

The first case leads to additional inter-broker network traffic, in addition to the normal traffic required for replication.
To avoid overloading the cluster, it is recommended to always set a throttle rate to limit the bandwidth used by the reassignment.

> This can be done using the `--throttle` option in the `--execute` model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This can be done using the `--throttle` option in the `--execute` mode.
```

This sets the maximum allowed bandwidth in bytes per second, for example `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --execute --throttle 5000000 ...` would set the limit to 5 MB/s.

Throttling might cause the reassignment to take longer to complete.

* If the throttle is too low, the newly assigned brokers will not be able to keep up with records being published and the reassignment will never complete.

* If the throttle is too high, the overall health of the cluster may be impacted.

> You can use the `kafka.server:type=FetcherLagMetrics,name=ConsumerLag,clientId=([-.\w]+),topic=([-.\w]+),partition=([0-9]+)` metric (which with the default `spec.kafka.metrics` settings in your Kafka CR would be named in Prometheus as `kafka_server-fetcherlagmetrics_consumerlag`) to observe how far the followers are lagging behind the leader. You can refer to this [example](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/blob/main/packaging/examples/metrics/kafka-metrics.yaml) for configuring metrics

Reviewer 3: `which with the default `spec.kafka.metrics` settings in your Kafka CR would be named in Prometheus as `kafka_server-fetcherlagmetrics_consumerlag`` ... it is not the default for the field. It is how our metrics examples are configured.

The best way to set the value for `--throttle` is to start with a safe value.
If the lag is growing, or decreasing too slowly to catch up within a reasonable time, then the throttle should be increased.
To do this, run the command again to increase the throttle, iterating until it looks like the broker will join the ISR within a reasonable time.

The `--verify` mode checks whether all the partitions in have been moved to their intended brokers, as defined by the `reassignment.json` file.
If the reassignment is complete, `--verify` also removes any replication quotas (`--throttle`) that are in effect.
Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished.

To summarise, a typical reasignment might look like this:

1. Start the reassignment: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --execute --throttle 5000000 ...`
2. Observe a growing lag
3. Increase the throttle: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --execute --throttle 8000000 ...`
4. Maybe now the lag is falling, but too slowly to expect the reassingment to be complete within a tolerable time.

> 5. So increase the throttle agin: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --execute --throttle 10000000 ...`

Reviewer 4: typo "again"

6. Check for completion: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --verify ...`, but it's not complete.
7. Check for completion: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --verify ...`, this time the reassignment is complete, so this invocation will have removed the throttle.

### Setting up the environment

Let's spin up an cluster where we can work through some reassignment examples.

To get the Kafka cluster up and running, we will first have to install the Strimzi Cluster Operator and then deploy the Kafka resource.
You can refer to the [Stimzi Quickstart Guide](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/quickstart.html) for installing Strimzi.

You can install the Cluster Operator with any installation method you prefer.
The Kafka cluster is then deployed with the plain listener enabled on port 9092.

Example Kafka configuration with plain listener.
```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
   name: my-cluster
spec:
   kafka:

>       version: 3.2.1

Reviewer 3: At this point, 3.2.1 is not released. Maybe you can change it to 3.2.0? Or remove the version completely? That will just keep it valid for the future.

      replicas: 3
      listeners:
         - name: plain
           port: 9092
           type: internal
           tls: false
         - name: tls
           port: 9093
           type: internal

>            tls: true

Reviewer 4: it seems this `tls` listener is not needed for the purpose of the blog post.

         deleteClaim: false
   entityOperator:
      topicOperator: {}
      userOperator: {}
```

Once the cluster is running, let's deploy some topics where we will send and receive the messages.
Here is an example topic configuration. You can change it to suit your requirements.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaTopic
metadata:
  name: my-topic-two
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  partitions: 10
  replicas: 3
  config:
    retention.ms: 7200000
    segment.bytes: 1073741824
    # ...
```

Finally, let us create a separate interactive pod for running the commands in.

> You may ask why we are using a separate pod to run the commands? Can't we just use one of the broker pods?
> The issue is that running commands from within a broker is not good practice.
> Running any of the Kafka `/bin` scripts from within the broker container will start another JVM (with all the same settings as the Kafka broker).
> This can cause disruption, including causing the container to run out of memory.
> So it is always better to avoid running the commands from a broker pod.

You can use the following command to create a pod called `my-pod`:

```sh

> kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:0.29.0-kafka-3.2.0 my-pod -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:0.30.0-kafka-3.2.0 my-pod -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"
```

> kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:0.29.0-kafka-3.2.0 my-pod -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"

Reviewer 4: maybe using latest 0.30.0 image?

```

Wait till the pod gets into the `Ready` state.
Once it is ready, we're all set to work through the examples.

## Example 1: Decreasing replication factor

> When we just created the `my-topic-two` topic we specified `spec.replicas` as 4.

Reviewer 3: We actually did not. It has 3 replicas in the YAML above. and even if it did had 4, with 3 brokers it would probably nto create at all. Do you want to create the cluster with 5 replicas and the topic with 4 replicas to make it match?

Author: Yes. Sorry, it was my fault I didn't changed the replicas in the Kafka CR

> When we just created the `my-topic-two` topic we specified `spec.replicas` as 4.

Reviewer 4: Actually the `KafkaTopic` example above has `spec.replicas: 3` ... it should be fixed to 4 there to make this point.

### Creating a proposal `reassignment.json` file

As we discussed above, this file will have the topics that we need to reassign.

Let's create our `topics.json` file in a file in the current directory of our local machine:
```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "topics": [
    { "topic": "my-topic-two"}
  ]
}
```

After creating this file, copy it to the interactive pod container since we will be running all of our commands from there:

```sh
kubectl cp topics.json my-pod:/tmp/topics.json
```

We can now start a shell process in our interactive pod container and run the command inside it to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data.
Let's start the shell process:

```sh
kubectl exec -ti my-pod /bin/bash
```

Now it's time to generate the `reassignment.json` file. 
We will use the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` command to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data:

```sh
kubectl exec -ti my-pod /bin/bash -- bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \
--topics-to-move-json-file /tmp/topics.json \

> --broker-list 0,1,2,3 \

Reviewer 4: does the deployed cluster have just 3 brokers so `0,1,2` ?

Reviewer 4: @ShubhamRwt now you fixed the cluster having 5 replicas, should this list be `0,1,2,3,4`?

--generate
```
Here `topics-to-move-json-file` points towards the `topics.json file` and `--broker-list` is the list of brokers we want to move our partitions onto.

Once you run this command, you will be able to see the JSON data which is generated by the Kafka reassignment partition tool. You get the current replica assignment and the proposed `reassignment.json` data.

```json
Current partition replica assignment
{"version":1,"partitions":[{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":0,"replicas":[3,4,2,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":1,"replicas":[0,2,3,1],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":2,"replicas":[1,3,0,4],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]}]}

Proposed partition reassignment configuration

> {"version":1,"partitions":[{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":0,"replicas":[0,1,2,3],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":1,"replicas":[1,2,3,4],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":2,"replicas":[2,3,4,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]}]}

Reviewer 4: How many brokers we have ... AFAIU we have 3, or? Why I see replicas broker ids even 3 and 4?

Since deleting data is very quick the reassignment will probably be complete almost immediately.
We can use the `--verify` action to when if the partition reassignment is done.

```sh
kubectl exec -ti my-pod /bin/bash -- bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \
--reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \
--verify
```

The `--verify` action reports if the assignment is done or not.

```sh
Status of partition reassignment:
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-0 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-1 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-2 is complete.

Clearing broker-level throttles on brokers 0,1,2,3,4
Clearing topic-level throttles on topic my-topic-two
```

We can validate that each of the partitions now has three replicas:

Topic: my-topic-two     TopicId: Hj9OZs77T3CYiHmGpTz3QA PartitionCount: 3       ReplicationFactor: 3    Configs: min.insync.replicas=2,segment.bytes=1073741824,retention.ms=7200000,message.format.version=3.0-IV1
Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 0    Leader: 2       Replicas: 0,1,2 Isr: 2,0,1
Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 1    Leader: 3       Replicas: 1,2,3 Isr: 1,2,3

> Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 2    Leader: 0       Replicas: 2,3,0 Isr: 0,2,3

Reviewer 4: Even in this output it seems we have a 5 brokers cluster.

      0
    ],
    "log_dirs": [
      "any",
      "any",
      "any",
      "any"
    ]
  }
]
```
Now we can use the `--execute` mode of the tool to apply our `reassignment.json` file and after that use the `--verify` mode to check if the assignment is done or not just like we did in the above steps.

 Once the assignment is done, you can check whether the log directory for partition 1 is now using the log directory `/var/lib/kafka/data-1/kafka-log0`

```json
[
  {
    "broker": 0,
    "logDirs": [
      {
        "logDir": "/var/lib/kafka/data-0/kafka-log0",
        "error": null,
        "partitions": [
          {
            "partition": "my-topic-two-2",
            "size": 0,
            "offsetLag": 0,
            "isFuture": false
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "logDir": "/var/lib/kafka/data-1/kafka-log0",
        "error": null,
        "partitions": [
          {
            "partition": "my-topic-two-1",
            "size": 0,
            "offsetLag": 0,
            "isFuture": false
          },
          {
            "partition": "my-topic-two-0",
            "size": 0,
            "offsetLag": 0,
            "isFuture": false
          }
        ]

>       } // ...

Reviewer 3: I think you should complete it to make it a valid JSON.

```suggestion
      }
    }
  }
]
```

Author: Actually it was a big `JSON` so I put in the part  where we are making the changes. Do we need to put the whole `json` ?

Reviewer 3: I think you make it much more readable for users if you put in a valid piece of the JSON => so for example in this case, you can also maybe remove the starting braces instead of adding the closing one
```
[
  {
    {
```
part as well.

```

> # Conclusion

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Conclusion
```

> In this post we've discussed the use cases where you can use Strimzi's KafkaRebalance CR for partition reassignment. We've looked in more detail at the use cases where you have to reassign partitions manually.

Reviewer 3: This is a bit confusing. Should it be cannot? Because you focused on the cases where it cannot be used.

```suggestion
In this post we've discussed the use cases where you cannot use Strimzi's KafkaRebalance CR for partition reassignment. We've looked in more detail at the use cases where you have to reassign partitions manually.
```

We've explained the the different modes of the kafka-reassign-partitions.sh tool (--generate, --execute, and --verify) and seen examples of using it for the manual reassignment cases.

> You can also take a look at our documentation on using the partition reassignment tool for Scaling up the Kafka cluster and Scaling down the Kafka cluster.

Reviewer 3: A link would be nice here.

1. You can reassign the partition between the brokers anytime. For example, it can be used at times when you want to scale down the number of brokers in your cluster.
   You can assign partitions from the broker to be scaled down to other brokers which will handle these partitions now.

2. With the help of this tool, you can increase the number of partitions / replicas which can help with increasing the throughput of the topic.

## Partition Reassignment Throttle

> Partition reassignment tool reassigns the partition between the brokers and sometimes this process could be slow due to transfer of large data.

Reviewer 5: `Partition reassignment tool` -> `The partition reassignment tool`
`reassigns the partition` -> `reassigns the partitions`.

What about something like:

> 
```suggestion
Reassigning partitions between brokers can sometimes lead to a large transfer of large data. To avoid overloading the cluster, it is recommended to always set a throttle rate to limit the bandwidth used by the reassignment. This can be done using the `--throttle` flag which sets the maximum allowed bandwidth in bytes, for example `--throttle 5000000` sets the limit to 50 MB/s.
```

To avoid any sort of impact on the client we can throttle the reassignment process.
Kafka lets us apply throttle to the replication traffic which sets an upper bound on the bandwidth used to move partition between the brokers.
For example, --throttle 5000000 sets a maximum threshold for moving partitions of 50 MBps.

Throttling might cause the reassignment to take longer to complete.

1. If the throttle is too low, the newly assigned brokers will not be able to keep up with records being published and the reassignment will never complete.

> 2. If the throttle is too high, clients will be impacted.

Reviewer 5: More than just the clients, the overall health of the cluster may be impacted, for example if replication of other topics can't keep up!

```

Now we require a kafka user.

> We will configure the kafka user with ACL rules that grant permission to produce and consume topics from the Kafka brokers.

Reviewer 5: Let's make sure we `Kafka` instead of `kafka`, it's a proper name

        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 0    Leader: 0       Replicas: 1,0,2 Isr: 0,1,2
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 1    Leader: 2       Replicas: 1,2,3 Isr: 2,3,1
        Topic: my-topic-two     Partition: 2    Leader: 3       Replicas: 2,3,4 Isr: 2,3,4
```

## Example 3: Changing the log dirs 

> Lets see how we can move a partition to use a certain JBOD volume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's see how we can move a partition to use a certain JBOD volume.
```

> Let say we have deployed a Kafka Resource with JBOD storage and deployed a topic with `spec.replicas` as 4.

Reviewer 2: The previous sentence began with "Let's".

```suggestion
Assume we have deployed a Kafka Resource with JBOD storage and deployed a topic with `spec.replicas` as 4.
```

Now our second task is to check which `logdir` are currently being used by Strimzi. You can use the `kafka-log-dir.sh` tool to check this

```shell
kubectl exec -n myproject -ti my-pod /bin/bash -- bin/kafka-log-dirs.sh --describe --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092  --broker-list 0,1,2,3 --topic-list my-topic-two
```

You will get a `json` which represents the log directories being used by the brokers

```json
[
  {
    "broker": 0,
    "logDirs": [
      {
        "logDir": "/var/lib/kafka/data-0/kafka-log0",
        "error": null,
        "partitions": [
          {
            "partition": "my-topic-two-1",
            "size": 0,
            "offsetLag": 0,
            "isFuture": false
          },
          {
            "partition": "my-topic-two-2",
            "size": 0,
            "offsetLag": 0,
            "isFuture": false
          }
        ]
      },

>       {

Reviewer 2: It might be clearer if you elide the rest of this JSON as it's pretty big, and it's only a small part which we will end up changing. It's not legal JSON syntax, but I think using `// ... and similar for the other logdirs and brokers` would be much clearer for the reader.

    "logDirs": [
      {
        "logDir": "/var/lib/kafka/data-0/kafka-log2",
        "error": null,
        "partitions": [
          {
            "partition": "my-topic-two-2",
            "size": 0,
            "offsetLag": 0,
            "isFuture": false
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "logDir": "/var/lib/kafka/data-1/kafka-log2",
        "error": null,
        "partitions": [
          {
            "partition": "my-topic-two-0",
            "size": 0,
            "offsetLag": 0,
            "isFuture": false
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
  {
    "broker": 3,
    "logDirs": [
      {
        "logDir": "/var/lib/kafka/data-0/kafka-log3",
        "error": null,
        "partitions": [
          {
            "partition": "my-topic-two-1",
            "size": 0,
            "offsetLag": 0,
            "isFuture": false
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "logDir": "/var/lib/kafka/data-1/kafka-log3",
        "error": null,
        "partitions": [
          {
            "partition": "my-topic-two-0",
            "size": 0,
            "offsetLag": 0,
            "isFuture": false
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

> Now we can try to move `my-topic-two-1` to use the log directory `/var/lib/kafka/data-1/kafka-log0`

Reviewer 2: On which broker?

We can again generate the `reassignment.json` in the same way we generated it for the other examples.

```shell

> {"version":1,"partitions":[{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":0,"replicas":[0,3,1,2],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":1,"replicas":[1,0,2,3],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":2,"replicas":[2,1,3,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]}]}

Reviewer 2: Can we indent this?

```

> Lets edit our `reassignment.json`and make the changes in log directory for partition 1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's edit our `reassignment.json`and make the changes in log directory for partition 1.
```

```json

> {"version":1,"partitions":[{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":0,"replicas":[0,3,1,2],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":1,"replicas":[1,0,2,3],"log_dirs":["any","/var/lib/kafka/data-1/kafka-log0","any","any"]},{"topic":"my-topic-two","partition":2,"replicas":[2,1,3,0],"log_dirs":["any","any","any","any"]}]}

Reviewer 2: Can we indent this?

 --execute
```

You can use the `--verify` action to check if the partition reassignment is done or if it is still running. You might have to run this command multiple times since it may take the process a while to get complete.

```sh
bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server <CLUSTER-NAME>-kafka-bootstrap:9092 \
  --reassignment-json-file /tmp/reassignment.json \
  --verify
```
The `--verify` action reports if the assignment is done or not.

```shell
Status of partition reassignment:
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-0 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-1 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-2 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-3 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-4 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-5 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-6 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-7 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-8 is complete.
Reassignment of partition my-topic-two-9 is complete.

Clearing broker-level throttles on brokers 0,1,2,3,4
Clearing topic-level throttles on topic my-topic-two  
```

> When the partition reassignment is complete, the brokers we want to scale down will have no assigned partitions and can be removed safely. You can check it by looking at the partition details of the reassigned topic.

Reviewer 5: If new topics are created before these brokers are removed from the cluster, partitions may be assigned to these brokers. Should we mention it?
